welcome to Jeremy's it lab this is a
free complete course for the CCNA if you
like these videos please subscribe to
follow along with the series also please
like and leave a comment and share the
video to help spread this free series of
videos thanks for your help this video
as you have probably noticed will be a
bit different than my other Lab videos
in the course we didn't actually cover
any configurations in the lecture video
so there won't be a packet tracer
practice lab file for you to practice
with instead I will just give you a
quick demo in Eve a network simulator of
one kind of network attack that I
mentioned in the lecture video then in
the next lecture video we will see how
to configure a Cisco switch to prevent
this kind of
attack the attack I will show you is the
DHCP exhaustion attack also called DHCP
starvation attack in this attack the
attacker sends countless DHCP discover
messages and then any DHCP servers on
the network will send offer
messages after the server sends the DHCP
offer the IP address it offers is
reserved while it waits for a response
from the client so by sending tons of
discover messages the attacker uses up
all of the IP addresses in the DHCP pool
and other hosts on the network will not
be able to get an IP address to
demonstrate that I will connect pc1 to
the network and we'll see if it can get
an address via DHCP
in this network R1 is the DHCP server
the attacker is this PC here running a
Linux distribution called Cali Linux
Cali Linux is popular in the world of
cyber security penetration testing and
such it comes with various pre-installed
tools for digital forensics and
penetration testing and we will be using
one called Yia for the DHCP exhaustion
attack first let's open the CLI of R1
one to take a look at the DHCP
settings enable Show run section
DHCP okay so here's the DHCP pool
192.168.1.0 24 and it will tell hosts to
use r1's own IP address
192.168.1.1 as the default
gateway the DNS server is 8.8.8.8
Google's DNS
server this IP address DHCP at the
bottom isn't actually part of the DHCP
pool it's from r1's g01 interface
settings but it was included in the
output of showrun section
DHCP now let's use some other show
commands show IP DHCP
pool as you can see in pool one there
are 254 available addresses I didn't
configure any excluded
addresses note that R1 won't assign its
own IP address
192.168.1.1 to another host so really
there are 253 available addresses that
can be
assigned however currently there are
zero least addresses and if I use the
command show IP DHCP binding we can see
that there are currently no
entries so let's go into the Cali Linux
box I already have the terminal open so
let's open
Yia the command is Yia hyphen
G so this opens the GUI graphical user
interface of your
CIA to launch our attack I'll click on
launch
attack then select DHCP and there are a
few DHCP attacks we can
do in this case I want to select sending
discover packet as the check mark
indicates here this will cause a Dos
denial of
service then I simply click okay and the
attack has
started on the right you can see each
DHCP discover message being sent and
here on the left you can see the DHCP
packet count rapidly Rising unless I
tell the attacker to stop it will
continue sending these discover
messages so let's see what's happening
on
R1 first let's check the pool
again show IP DHCP
pool okay of the 254 total addresses
253 are being leased and as I said one
is used by R1 itself so that means the
entire pool is being
used let's check the binding table show
IP DHCP binding okay I'm just going to
keep pressing the space bar as R1 goes
through the DHCP binding
table you'll see that every address from
192.168.1.2 to
192.168.1.254 is currently taken
also notice that each of these IP
addresses has a unique Mac
address that's because the attacker is
spoofing the source Mac address used for
each discover message so R1 thinks that
each of the messages is coming from a
different
host okay let's see if pc1 is able to
get an IP address before connecting it
to the network I'll check some settings
on
pc1 here in the command prompt let's
check ip config
/all okay here under the ethernet
adapter we can see media disconnected
because it's currently not connected to
the
network and we can see DHCP enabled yes
so once we connect pc1 to switch one it
should try to get an IP address via
DHCP let's see if it works so I'll click
here on pc1 and connected to switch one
PC one's interface is e0 and switch ones
is g01 so I'll just click on
Save now let's check on pc1
again from the command prompt ip config
/all okay under the ethernet adapter we
can once again see DHCP enabled yes it
has a link local IPv6 address
automatically generated and below that
we see an ipv4 address so did DHCP work
actually no it didn't as it says here
this is an autoconfigured ipv4 address
pc1 generated it
automatically it has the prefix 169.254
sl16 the subnet mask is
255.255.0.0
169.254
o.6 is the ipv4 link local address range
so it functions like the IPv6 link local
address
above so pc1 autogenerated ipv4 and IPv6
link local addresses but it wasn't able
to get a regular ipv4 address from the
DHCP server
R1 so pc1 won't be able to communicate
with any other devices on the network if
I try to Ping R1 for example ping
192.168.1.1 as you can see it doesn't
work what if I try to renew the IP
address IP config SL
renew so pc1 will once again try to get
an ipv4 address via DHCP but once again
it won't work we could wait here for a
while so I'll just use contrl C to stop
it next I'll delete the connection from
the attacker to switch one by clicking
here and selecting
delete next I'll go on to R1 and clear
the DHCP bindings
I taught you this command in the DHCP
video the command is clear IP DHCP
binding followed by an
asterisk okay now I'll go back on pc1
and try to get an IP address once
more ip config SL
renew this time R1 should have an
available IP address for pc1 now that
the attack has stopped and indeed pc1
was able to get an IP
address so let's test if it can use the
internet I'll open Firefox and go to
google.com Okay pc1 is now able to
access the internet so in this video we
took a look at one kind of network
attack the DHCP exhaustion
attack although there is no Packet
Tracer lab file for you to practice with
this time I hope it was at least
interesting in to see in the next video
we'll look at a Cisco switch feature
called Port security which can be used
to prevent this kind of attack as well
as others okay that's all for this
lab before finishing today's video I
want to thank my jcmp level channel
members to join please click the join
button under the video thank you to C
mode Scott Martin qua Justin Christopher
tabogo Anand pavl Abraham Sergey un joku
Victor Roger Raj Kenneth Sheamus Brandon
Marcel con Donald Gustavo prash Nasir
erison Marco daming Ed John funny dart
velvet jacum Mark Yousef ban software
Devin yonathan and Vance sorry if I
pronounced your name incorrectly but
thank you so much for your support this
is the list of jcn P level members at
the time of recording by the way May 13
2021 if you signed up recently and your
name isn't on here don't worry you'll be
in future
videos thank you for watching please
subscribe to the channel like the video
leave a comment and share the video with
anyone else studying for the
CCNA if you want to leave a tip check
the links in the description I'm also a
brave verified publisher and accept bat
or basic attention token tips via the
brave browser that's all for now